Hey. this is Peter Gould.
This is episode 309. "Fall."
And I'm Gordon Smith.
I wrote this episode.
Minkie Spiro. the director.
Rhea Seehorn. I acted in it.
Bob Odenkirk. I played Jimmy McGill.
Melissa Bernstein.
one of your producers.
Such a funny thing that he bought
the shitty cookies and baked...
-And is passing them off as his own.
-You eat many of your props...
-...in our scenes. Did you eat these?
-I didn't eat those. No. They were just...
-...way too pre-made for me.
-Fattening.
-Well. I think those were...
-Those are for your bomb shelter.
Those are bomb shelter cookies.
Thirty years later you're like.
"I'm so glad I packed these away."
I thought those were gluten-free.
I'm surprised.
-There's Irene.
-Here we are...
-...back at Sandpiper Crossing.
-That is a fine...
...wonderful actress named Jean Effron.
She is great.
-Kiira Arai found her last season.
-Isn't she?
-No. it was the season before last.
-Season one. season one.
-Is she local to New Mexico. then?
-She is.
-Initially. she was just somebody...
...to say "Bingo." in Genny's episode.
And we liked her so much
that when we had the plot line...
...about finding one of his clients...
...finding something
at Sandpiper Crossing...
...we're like. "She was great.
What if we did her?"
-That's great.
-My God.
And she was doing a play
after this season.
I don't know what it was.
but she's... She is an actress.
It's not one of those things
where she's never done it.
But there was this anxiety.
could she hold this story line?
But she was...
She absolutely stepped up.
-Amazing.
-Yeah.
And this is...
She has so much to do in this episode.
She's wonderful.
And I love the way
you play this one. Bob.
Because Jimmy...
-...he hasn't quite made the decision...
-This is the giveaway. right here.
...to go as dark as he goes.
-Yeah.
-But he thinks maybe this will be easy.
And... But he's got a hidden agenda here.
-Yeah.
-Not very well-hidden.
Yeah. but she sure can't see it.
I appreciate that this shot
includes the fantastic set dec...
-...of the painting in the background.
-So great.
Who doesn't want
one cinder block wall in their house?
I mean. these legal notices...
So. Minkie. you...
You're not from here.
Funny you should say that.
-You're not from Albuquerque.
-No.
Where are you from?
Where have you done
most of your directing?
I'm based in London.
born and brought up there.
And I was very chuffed when Melissa
and your fine self-invited me...
-...to come and take part in the show.
-That means insulted.
Or infuriated. I thought.
But...
Minkie is probably...
You should IMDb her.
She has done some amazing work.
She's having quite an incredible career.
and we were so lucky...
...to get her for this
very pivotal episode.
And it's always...
I will admit
that it's always a little nail-biting...
...to bring in a new director.
and you just never quite know.
And just...
Minkie just hit this out of the park.
And I was just so. so happy
with the way this one came out.
I love your American expressions.
"Hit it out of the park."
I remember
when somebody first said that to me.
I had no idea
what you were talking about.
I had to get a translation.
Which it's to do with baseball. right?
-I guess.
-Once you figured it out...
...you were chuffed. so...
You were quite chuffed about it.
Good. good. good.
This was a complicated episode too.
because we...
I don't think we really realized
how difficult it was gonna be...
...when we were breaking it in the room.
Because there's just
so many moving parts and we had...
...extras and we had a very large cast...
...a lot of scenes and a ton of locations.
This is a practical location.
So we were running around from...
...dawn until... Till midday.
Sometimes not taking lunch
for 10 hours at a stretch...
...just because
we were fighting daylight.
This is shot in the middle of January...
...so we had very little daylight...
-...but there was a lot of exteriors.
-Yeah.
And having to work in a working mall.
where we were only allowed there...
...before it opened.
There were just a number
of small challenges that added up...
...to it being a really challenging shoot
to kind of keep everyone together.
These ladies are amazing.
Bonnie Bartlett is the actress
on the right there that you saw.
Of St Elsewhere.
among many other things.
-And Little House on the Prairie. I think.
-Yeah.
Yeah.
Those three. Phyllis. Bonnie and Carol.
are just wonderful.
They...
They're just so beautifully orchestrated.
They have three...
It's also three wonderful voices.
-Each one of them has a different...
-Yeah.
Is in a different pitch.
a different octave.
And they're just fun to listen to.
They're fun to watch.
And they just... They just brought it.
And you believe you've fallen
into a sewing circle.
Like they... They go way back
and have a shorthand.
And they had never met before.
-Really?
-I don't think so.
They met on the airplane.
flying over from L.A.
Oh. Saul. Getting peed on.
Smells so good.
You're in trouble.
The titles. of course. change
each season a little bit. very subtly.
Sad as can be. but...
Where is Mike?
-Where could he possibly be?
-What is happening?
What?
One of my favorite moments. there.
Did you have to hire someone
who had special skills...
...at the bottom that says.
"Rides a Segway"?
-Yes.
-He... The guy came with the Segway.
-Stop it.
-It was his Segway.
-Damn it. I need to do my special skills.
-He did that.
And this is shot in a building
right next to our studio.
-But where they're walking into...
-And now it's a different building.
-Yes.
-Oh. it is?
-I wasn't there.
This is another location
that we shot back in Breaking Bad.
-Same office.
-There she is.
I love Laura Fraser.
I didn't get to meet her.
Laura Fraser. who's just wonderful.
And it's interesting. we really felt
that that waiting room scene...
...had value to bring Mike
into this new world.
But it was a pain in the neck to shoot.
because it was. like...
-Why?
-Because it was a different location.
Because this office building
doesn't have a useable lobby...
...not a lobby that size.
So we had to dress...
-This building's tiny.
-Yeah.
-Yes.
-Tiny. little office.
Why the decision
to have a Degas sculpture?
I think that was originally
in Breaking Bad.
It was. I think it was...
I think it was Sam.
I think Sam Catlin... I think it was
his episode and he thought that...
...that was something that felt like...
...the way that Lydia
would conceive of herself...
-...in terms of the ballerina of it.
-That's why I was wondering.
It's such a modern office
and then there's that.
-Yes. yeah.
-Interesting.
I've had people talk to me
who assumed it was Fearless Girl.
-Oh. interesting. On Wall Street now.
-Which is part of the...
Part of the Wall Street statue war.
Oh. right.
Laura Fraser.
also not from here. like Minkie.
-Scottish.
-Scottish. Lovely Scottish actress.
This is also... In sort of the story terms.
this is the first meeting...
...that Mike and Lydia have.
Which. of course.
we see them much later in their lives.
In a much different place...
...kind of worrying
about the demise of Gus Fring.
But this is their introduction.
I love the way Laura plays it
because she was cast originally...
...to be Lydia on Breaking Bad.
whose hair is on fire.
She's in an extreme state of anxiety
from the first moment that we see her.
And now we get to see Lydia...
A calmer Lydia. but she still seems...
...brittle. might be a word I'd use.
She seems... She's still Lydia.
And I don't... Laura has just
such an interesting way...
...about her
when she gets into this character.
It's a little bit of a crime
that we can't use her real accent...
...because she has
a wonderful Scottish lilt.
And she is. by the way.
if you IMDb her...
If you're... She's on a British show...
...which is. I believe.
about crimes at Loch Ness.
And it sounds terrific.
I've heard wonderful things.
I really wanna watch that.
Is the...? ls the end...?
It's always like. "I don't know...
...these flipper prints
lead back to the ocean.
I don't know who did it."
-It could be.
-Yes. Gordon.
-That is the end of every episode.
-That's why it's so good.
-Yes.
-It could be.
And she's also...
Lydia is styled a bit differently.
Her hair is down.
Uptight.
Yeah. she even gives Mike
a little shit here...
...about working at SMQ Parking.
which is not something...
...that future Lydia.
with her hair on fire. would really do.
Justin?
We had a nightmare with the door. here.
Do you remember. it wouldn't close?
-Yes.
-We had to keep...
-Really?
-Yeah. That door wasn't really...
...intended to be an entry and exit door...
...so we had to kind of figure out
what to do with it to make it work.
So you've got actors laying
on the ground. holding it?
-Pretty much.
-Basically. basically. yeah.
-With a key they have in the door.
-Movie magic.
Yeah.
But. like. normally that door.
in terms of this office's normal use...
...they just lock that door.
So there's not like a...
A latch that closes.
-You have to lock and unlock it.
-I like that she has a key. though.
-Yeah.
-It's like she's like. "No..."
...if you're coming in.
you have to unlock it.
-And you lock every time you leave."
-Yeah. she's in a vault.
-You put a good spin on that.
-Yeah. no. it really feels...
-...like a Breaking Bad...
-A choice.
...Better Call Saul choice.
Like. she has a special office.
Note. it's from producers.
"The key is always in the lock.
Please have discussion.
half an hour at minimum."
Oh. I love this scene.
-And again. it...
-Yeah. it's a great scene...
...where these guys diverge.
Yeah. you see Howard...
Howard's really having...
He's really getting fed up
with Chuck a little bit here.
-Or he's concerned about him anyway.
-Yeah.
And...
They're still on the same side.
at least as far as we can tell right now.
And this is one of the few times
we get to see Chuck kind of...
...not seemingly. at this moment.
hurting from the electricity at HHM.
He's there and he seems pretty...
He's annoyed
with why he's being called in...
...but not hurting from that. notably.
He's putting on a show of a normal guy.
In a moment. the table lamps
are gonna be switched off.
-I seem to remember there was a...
-Oh. my God.
-Was there a problem with that?
-Just a little.
Oddly enough. it was very difficult.
I mean. we were trying to get
the electricians to rewire them.
We tried to find a similar contraption
that we could isolate...
...because they were all on one...
-You couldn't take one out. yeah.
-Circuit?
Yeah.
But luckily.
they did figure out a solution.
This is how Chuck goes through life.
He's just gonna sue you.
-Yeah.
-Who else is like that?
Who in the real world is like that?
-All other lawyers.
-A lot of America.
Not our president.
Oh. wait.
You know. to a hammer.
everything looks like a nail.
I love the tilt back of the chairs
and the shape it makes.
-Well done. The lights went out.
-Yeah.
We managed it.
It's funny. the things...
The things you get hung up on.
And where is the booze
gonna be in this room?
We had to figure out where the booze...
...came from
because we've never seen it before.
A place that would accommodate that.
At this point. I think people should fear
when Hamlin brings out booze.
It doesn't ever seem to be good things
he's gonna say to you.
-"Have some bourbon."
"Totally not the poisoned bourbon
this time. promise."
You know. Hamlin. I think.
is giving some pretty good advice here.
Absolutely.
One hundred percent.
this would've been a better out for him.
-Fabian is so great in this season.
-Yeah.
You guys gave him more going on.
and he gets angry...
-...and intense. and he's powerful.
-Yep.
I loved seeing what has been
simmering under Hamlin...
...for three seasons
come out this season.
He's under a lot of pressure. And...
Yeah. Patrick is such a wonderful actor.
-Yeah. and a wonderful person.
-Yeah.
-He's not... I don't feel like...
-He's so-so as a person.
Yeah. but you know what
I think he doesn't get...
...because he's kind of
handsome-y and...
Handsome-y?
You know. he probably doesn't get
what you guys are giving him here...
...which is where he gets to get
really riled up and lay down the law...
You think in other parts
he doesn't get it.
And switch from one... Look.
Maybe it's time to sit down.
-I think you're right.
-Like. that little shit. that kind of stuff.
I just feel so sorry for him
for being so handsome.
-Do you? Do you?
-It's a problem.
-I don't have it.
-I know.
Didn't one of you tell me that
that saying is Vince's?
Oh. it's totally Vince. yes.
"If enough people tell you you're drunk.
you probably ought to sit down."
It's one of those room things.
-I love that.
-Comes up a lot.
There's a bunch of them
that always end up...
...sneaking into dialogue.
Look. he's not better.
You guys. he's not better at all.
-That doesn't look good.
-I love this line.
This is not what "fine" looks like.
-Yeah. Patrick did it so well.
-That's truth telling.
And how great is McKean?
-Yeah.
-Oh. God. Oh. my God.
Hands down.
What I like about this scene too
and the way that both of them play it...
...is. like. they both have a point.
It's not like... It's not like Hamlin
is just trying to maneuver him...
...for his own end.
He really does have a point.
Like. just retire and be
the sort of genius lawyer that you are...
-...but for the world.
-Take care of yourself.
-Take care of yourself. exactly.
-Do not drag the firm down with you.
-Right.
-But that's the thing...
...where Chuck has... That's his identity.
But as self-righteous
and as legal-minded as he is...
...there's no part of him that realizes.
you should not be representing...
-...people in court right now.
-Minkie. I love this shot.
-I just have to say.
-Look at that.
Every time I see this shot.
with that heel coming down...
-Can I tell you the pain getting there?
-You had to move the sun?
-Yeah.
-Yes.
We actually ordered a Technocrane in
and the head broke down...
...so I had to find another way to do it
because I was not willing...
-...to give up on that shot.
-It's so great.
It's such a great shot.
Tell them about the oil well.
Bob. we showed up
and the oil well didn't work.
-So then what did you guys do?
-Our pump jack.
No. people controlled it.
For the first day.
Those are human beings.
I'm looking out there
and I'm like. "There's six ninjas..."
...doing this pump jack."
Like. dudes in black.
They're pulling a rope.
It's like something the ancient Egyptians
would've done to build a pyramid.
-Were you erasing them?
-We erased them.
Well. most of those pump jacks.
Bill Powloski...
-...our wonderful VFX supervisor...
-Our visual effects.
Most of those are digital.
-But the one that's closest to us...
-Yeah.
...was being operated
by human beings the whole time.
For one day.
and the other day it worked.
You came back from this...
Was this a one-day shoot?
-Two days.
And you came back from this
with windburn and sand burn. right?
-Yeah.
-Yes.
I've never had my hands
in my pockets harder in my whole life.
-You were pooping out sand pellets?
-Yep.
It was freezing cold. temperature-wise...
...and then there was
some windstorm issues...
...with. like. icy... Icy cold winds.
-And just sandstorm.
-And then a sandstorm...
...that was going
in the direction of our faces.
-It doesn't look bad. does it?
-When we did the wides.
It looks great.
I was telling them
that Chris Mulkey and I...
...we rehearsed. thank God.
two different nights...
...when he got in to his hotel.
We worked on a lot of stuff.
And Minkie was great...
...and worked with us.
And so we understood the scene.
But then. the wind picked up
and was making this crazy sound...
...just where we were that was like...
Like a haunted house.
And we couldn't hear each other.
And there was a couple points...
...where we stared
at each other's mouths and go:
"I think he's done talking."
I remember looking around...
I'm standing with Gordon...
...at this portable director's monitor.
And the sandstorm
is really picking up speed.
I look around and the entire crew
has suddenly got this amazing kit on.
Sandstorm protection...
-Goggles.
When we look over.
they were all in goggles.
-They're amazing.
-That's an Albuquerque crew.
Yeah. that's a Breaking Bad crew.
Gordon and I looked at each other like.
"ls there something we don't know?"
-No.
-Nothing stops them...
-...nothing even gives them pause.
-Is that being operated by people?
-On day one. I don't know which...
-I can't remember.
I don't think it was operated by people.
I think by then
they'd gotten the motor working.
You know. we're very lucky
with sandstorms because the...
The sandstorm you're talking about
reminds me of the one...
...on Bob's first episode
of Breaking Bad...
-...when you're crouched in front of the...
-Yeah.
-Grave.
-In front of the grave. on your knees...
...and there was so much sand...
-...that you were spitting it out.
-Yeah.
This was... Minkie said it too.
This was... It's in your eyeballs.
-It's up your nose.
-Yeah. We had that.
I had the medic every 10 minutes
putting saline in my eyes...
...just so I could see.
It was just intense.
I was so excited
to get to do one of these iconic...
...beautiful wides. though.
And Minkie gave me the best direction...
...here. which was just as simple as.
"In real time. I want you to figure out...
...how to dig your car out."
And to have the luxury of. like...
...doing that. and doing that for real.
and filming it...
...and trusting that the audience
is staying with your character...
...was just really great.
This was a moment too
that we were really...
We were trying to figure out
how to button that scene...
...with Chris Mulkey. Gatwood. to sort of
give us a little bit more about Kim.
When we were talking about it.
we're like:
-He was great.
- "What would she...?"
He's great. but we wanted...
It felt like the scene wasn't
kind of landing...
...in terms of learning
something new about Kim.
And so this was what we came up with.
in terms of. like...
...she's so driven at this point
that she won't even ask for help...
...to get her car out of the dirt.
-Right.
-What was amazing is. Rhea...
-...you wanted to do it all.
-I did.
And you pretty much did it all.
apart from one shot.
Yes. the amazing Heather Bonomo.
my stunt double...
...she did just that last frame
where you actually jump into the car.
I opened the... Ran to the car.
opened the door. got a leg in...
...but they would not let me
pull the other leg in...
...because you could shut a door
on your leg. and insurance and all.
But I wanted to do it.
But Heather watched me for a day
and a half before she did that.
-By the time she did it...
-Brilliant.
She ran like me. she walked like me.
It was kind of weird.
-Yeah.
-She was great.
There's so much to talk about
in that scene.
-We're never gonna touch on all of it.
-I loved playing that scene.
I just have to say. again.
the beautiful physical acting...
-...that you did...
-Well. thanks.
-That's a great reveal.
-It really is wonderful.
-And then. here's...
-I love this scene...
...between you and Patrick
so much. Bob.
Is this about Chuck?
Who?
If you actually have business...
Have you started merchandising
those ties?
You know. it's...
I think we're gonna have to. It's...
We're working on it.
The Jimmy McGill collection
is really pretty awesome.
And Jennifer Bryan has brought back
the knit tie. single-handedly.
Yes. I believe that when she
first started shopping for them...
...they were hard to come by.
and now they're around everywhere.
-Oh. really?
-Yes.
Oh. so now you're worried
about the clients?
You two guys together...
All you care about is
your share of the payout.
I think Jimmy has
a really good point here.
-They both have...
-That's what's great about the writing.
Yes. and by the way.
fans of the show...
...who are lawyers say that he's right.
He's right. That when you have
old people in a suit...
...one of the things
you change about it...
...is you're more willing to settle it
because they are not gonna...
-They're not gonna make it.
-Get to have the money that you're...
...winning for them.
And if we don't. what are you gonna do?
At this point. Bob.
do you think Jimmy has any thought...
...about what he's gonna do
with Mrs. Landry?
-Or...?
-No.
I think. you know.
Jimmy just goes through life...
...waiting for these chasms
to open in front of him.
And then as quick as he can.
thinks of a solution...
...that is not airtight. ever.
-But less premeditated. do you think?
-But still fun.
But much less premeditated.
do you think?
It's not. like. a big. long scheme?
He's not... No. there's no long view.
But I think Saul. though.
makes a longer plan.
A bigger. longer plan.
-That's an interesting point.
-But more care...
More selfish.
Anyhow. my theories on the character.
-I like that.
-Well. look at these guys.
-It's also freezing in this scene...
-Is it. is it?
-Oh. utterly freezing.
-It is freezing.
This is actually where we put Gordon up
when he's staying in Albuquerque.
-I do.
-It gets cold rain too.
I stay in one of the barrels
that you can see in the background.
Of course. Mando's happy.
He's got a leather jacket.
Yep.
I mean. Mark was very...
...frightened about this scene.
not just about the Spanish...
...but about... It was bitterly cold.
He didn't know
if he'd be able to do the four hours.
-He's an older man.
-Exactly.
-I mean. it's genuinely...
-No. that's...
-...scary.
-We've hired a bunch of actors...
-...who don't speak Spanish.
-We sent him back...
...changed his costume.
put thermals underneath.
-Yeah. Was he okay?
-Yeah. Yeah.
You can't do much about your face.
though. as we figured out...
...in that last scene with me.
You guys have been out
in the elements much more than I have.
I'm mostly an indoor cat... Kim.
But your lips start to freeze. And...
-Yeah. you can't speak.
-You can't speak correctly.
I know. You can't enunciate.
Boy. he's fucking good.
He's so good.
Goddamn it. he's angry.
The thing is. he walks around
with that anger all day.
Now. Giancarlo. on the other hand.
is actually not at all.
No. he will give you meditative. like...
...beautiful spiritual talks
and stuff in between.
Yeah. and Margolis is genuinely...
He could kill someone.
-What's so funny?
-He's gonna kill us all.
I love watching Giancarlo...
...find the nuances
of who Gus Fring was...
...just a few years before. you know?
It's not this huge leap.
but it's not where he ends up.
He's just fascinating to watch.
no matter what's happening.
-He is.
-It's with all you guys.
And it's something you kind of learn
almost second by second...
...in the editing room.
is that we see so much on your faces...
...from moment to moment.
And there's always
something interesting to cut to.
In fact. one of the problems
in the editing room is often...
...you wanna be looking at everybody.
You wanna be seeing
everything that's happening.
And this scene also was shot
with the VariCam...
...that we've talked about in other...
Other commentary tracks.
Here we are at the mall.
-Those shoes are ridiculous.
-Yeah.
-MBTs.
-Are those hard to walk in?
They don't make them anymore.
I think. right?
-Are they comfortable?
-They do.
-No. They're a joke.
-They do make them...
...but we went back. I think. to...
They're not...
The rocking heel toe
does not look comfortable to me.
But. Bob. you are so lovely.
You made sure
that Jean had them in advance...
...so that she could test them
and feel comfortable in them.
Well. I like these ladies.
They're all super-awesome.
-You were amazing with them.
-Jean Effron is...
...an outstanding person.
besides being a great actress.
MBT actually asked for this clip
on their website.
-No.
-Yes.
-Wonderful.
-We appreciate them...
...helping us out with the shoes.
This is so funny. guys.
to do this phony baloney.
-It's so ridiculous.
-It's so fun.
"Oh. yeah. I love it.
Are you kidding me?"
"Hey. what's going on?"
Who doesn't love the mall walk?
Look at the suit he's in.
And the red headband.
You know.
when we do stuff like this. Peter...
...do you guys have
conversations about...
Because I'm thinking you know...
...how I would like to go...
...just another 15 percent further
into stupidity.
Just because...
You must think. like...
So the tone meetings
are just about reining you in?
-Is that what it is?
-Just the opposite. Bob.
In my brain... The tone meeting
in my brain is about...
...you can't go that far.
But... Like this. look how cocky he is.
Yeah. sure. laughs.
-I'll tell you. that used to worry me.
-Just easygoing. you know?
It worried me about Saul
on Breaking Bad.
Is this tone gonna work
with the rest of the show?
That was something I was worried...
I'm not worried at all anymore.
Because it's just our world and it works.
It does.
And I don't feel like
you've ever put a wrong foot. ever.
This is so ridiculous.
And yet it feels effortless.
Yeah. I mean.
Vince even left that thing in...
...where I leaned
on the soda machine in that first...
Oh. that's so great.
Which I thought. as fun as it was to do.
and it was super-fun to do...
...there's no way it can stay in.
But I thought it was fine.
Perfect.
Yeah. I mean. you guys...
We are so lucky...
...to have the latitude we have
to do comedy.
And right next to...
We're so lucky we have actors that...
-That can do it.
-That have that affinity. Yeah.
Obviously. we wouldn't be here
if you weren't here. Bob.
-Well. thanks.
-If you hadn't started on Breaking Bad...
...none of us would be here right now.
-This guy is so great.
-Yeah. it's so great.
-I was so happy about this.
-What is that clip. Gordon?
That is Night of the Hunted.
-Night of the Hunter.
-Sorry. different movie.
-Yeah. Mitchum.
-Robert Mitchum...
...explaining the story of love and hate.
the tattoos that he has on his knuckles.
The only movie directed
by Charles Laughton.
-Really?
-Yes.
-And it's so good. He did a great job.
-So good.
Feels very appropriate.
This montage...
By the way.
I want to give a lot of credit...
...to Skip Macdonald.
who cut this episode.
Wow. Skip.
Skip is just a one-of-a-kind talent.
He's amazing.
But also. Minkie just shot
the hell out of this.
Yeah. coming out of the faces of
the ladies in the mall with the color...
...into that ball rolling in.
I mean. it was really something.
This is an amazing piece of editing.
Now. I heard a story about a balloon.
-Yes.
-What's the story about the balloon?
I wanted those transitions
as much as possible so that...
...you know. Skip would have the...
The ingredients to then play.
There was this issue
with our Art Department...
...that those kind of things
didn't exist in the mall.
I was like. "Just fuck it.
You know what...
...at this point. it's not about reality.
It's about the montage."
So you had a blue balloon
up in the mall that matched a blue...
-Billiard ball.
-The number two billiard ball. yeah.
The timing of getting lovely Jean
to walk through...
...at the same time
that the camera. it was...
I didn't even know you were doing that.
I was no help on that day. It's...
-The music is also wonderful.
-The music is awesome.
The upbeat music. yeah.
We have Ann Harper
running the yoga session here...
...who is Rich Sickler's wife. our AD.
An incredible masseuse...
Massage therapist.
-Indeed.
-Yes. she is.
Oh. wait a minute. I didn't know that.
Hey. look at the big picture.
Oh. man.
This is a great advertisement
for chair yoga. I think.
-It is.
-I would do it.
Poor Jean.
Jennifer Bryan's costumes are so great.
-They are.
-They won't even talk to her.
It was a real challenge
to try and shoot four days...
...with senior citizens.
Having to get them
to change costumes...
...within the two-hour time frame we
were allowed in the mall. but we did it.
You had to be in the mall
at an ungodly early hour. right?
Four days to shoot?
-Two days. Two mornings.
-Two days.
You could only shoot till 10.
Yeah. that's why we had to do it
over two days...
...because we didn't have enough hours.
-Did you really?
-I think we had a company move...
...almost every single day
of this shoot and some days two.
Which is... It's a lot
because it eats up a lot of time.
A challenging show... Episode.
Minkie. wow. it's amazing what you did.
-Thank you. Bob.
-This scene... Who plays his dad?
-This is Juan Carlos Cantu.
-I love him.
-And he is...
-So amazing.
I love him so much.
These two guys.
Michael and Juan Carlos are just...
Michael is just beautiful
and brilliant in this episode.
It was really interesting. because
Michael's instinct was to walk around...
...and be very animated.
We had a long chat with him.
took about 45 minutes during lunch...
...just sit with him and Juan
to just talk about stillness.
He's so powerful when he's still.
-It's great.
-Yeah.
Once he embraced it.
he went with it amazingly.
Yeah. we had a long slow lead-up
of him getting that milk...
...and coming in and how he was
in the space. which was great.
But we didn't have time.
The episode was so long. so...
But it was great.
It was that stillness.
sort of him moving slowly...
...through this space and coming to rest.
It's painful to get
these episodes close to time. this...
Because there's just
so much great material in them.
This scene.
it's an interesting scene for us...
...because there's no ironic subtext.
There's nothing funny about it.
It's very straight-ahead.
It's a very honest.
straight-ahead scene.
And we have a run of them
in these last couple episodes...
...where there's a lot more honesty
than we're used to having.
And I think it's really beautiful.
But hopefully it feels like
we've earned it by this point.
Like. that was... When we were
talking about this scene. it was like...
...the bill has come due.
He's gotta have this conversation
he's been avoiding...
...for a long. long time with his father.
But the only way to do it
is to do it straightforward.
-So...
-There's...
And of course.
Michael is not a Spanish-speaker.
And I'm not either. so I can't talk
about his Spanish. but I can say...
And neither is Mark Margolis.
doing Hector.
-The commitment they both have...
-Or Giancarlo.
-Yeah.
Their commitment
to the dialect coaches and studying...
...and not just wanting
to speak Spanish...
...but speak Cuban or Mexican
or street is just phenomenal.
And our apologies
to Spanish-speakers if we...
If we miss something or mess up.
But I think...
This particular scene is especially...
I gotta tell you. I couldn't help but think
about Michael and his real dad.
-Yeah?
-Because his dad is a huge presence...
...in his life
and has a real amazing story.
Michael's life story
and the dad's story. the way they're...
The two stories
and the way they come together...
...is really powerful.
And it's a big part of him.
And so this scene.
I couldn't help but think about...
...everything he's told me about his dad.
You guys should ask him about it.
It's really interesting you say that.
because he got so emotional.
-Oh. yeah.
-And I kept on asking him to hold back.
Well. it's really true.
I mean. I think his father...
If he was to really disappoint
his own father...
...it would be the worst thing in his life.
I actually had him
have paper towels in his lap...
...so he could wipe his tears.
Because he couldn't help himself.
and it makes more sense now.
Yeah. it's a great story and I would love
to tell it. but it's his to tell.
You could ask him about it
when he does the...
Tell us a little
about your dad or something.
Because it'd be something to hear.
I'm always happy
when Audrey Moore is in the show.
-She's just...
-And here comes Fabian here...
...and not what he expects.
It's so great.
"He's retiring. he listened to me.
What a good guy."
I believe
this was shot at night. wasn't it?
-Yes.
-Yeah.
We had to shift things around
a little bit so that...
-This was one of our problem spots.
-Yes.
-But you'd never know. I mean...
-No.
-It looks perfect.
Steve Litecky. our gaffer.
had to make some magic.
All right. so this is
Fabian's Emmy episode.
It is. right?
He's got a great scene in 10 too.
-Yeah. right? Yes.
-Yeah.
-He's gonna have to choose.
- "I'm back to normal."
"Hi. look at me stirring.
Look how normal I'm stirring."
I love watching this.
This makes me laugh so much.
So good.
In a two-room office
when I joined him.
And you. I tutored for the bar exam.
You're not kicking me out.
If you can't "trust my judgment."
as you say. so be it...
He's not gonna take anything
lying down.
-No.
-Michael. Amazing.
-And as usual. they both have a point.
-Yeah.
Just the... I love what Patrick does here.
You'd rather tear down HHM than retire?
You think I'm trouble now
as your partner?
Imagine me as your enemy.
-The mixer
-The blender.
He was so reticent to use that mixer.
because he just can't deal with props...
...when he's dealing
with something emotional.
I said. "Just try it. Just go for it.
because it's such a great addition."
It's so good.
And you can see that little scar
on top of his eyebrow.
I love that he planned... That he's
been waiting to do this little show.
Oh. yeah. "I have a glass of wine.
and I'm so relaxed.
I'm just gonna emulsify."
He's so specific. I love it.
And then he calls a service
to take the pots off the stove.
Using one of his therapeutic techniques.
-That's right.
-A real technique. I understand. yeah.
That was Heather Marion's discovery.
that technique.
And. boy. it's been playing great for us.
-Another bit of visual effects there.
-I was fascinated by the science...
...behind this scam.
-Yeah.
-Who came up with it?
Oh. we never know. I couldn't tell you.
We talked about ideas
and. like. how you would do this.
Or how you would do
some version of this. We pitched out...
-This is a tricky one. guys.
-Yeah.
When in doubt. use a magnet.
-That's our motto.
-Thank the audience...
-It was not an easy...
-...for being part of this storytelling.
But the magnetic paint part of it.
that ball...
...is actually just coated on the inside
with the magnetic paint that they...
-That's pretty strong.
-Yeah. so...
I always had in the back of my mind
that this was a scam...
...that Jimmy learned
from somewhere. maybe.
I would think so. It doesn't seem like
he would've invented it. right?
-It seems like an old carnie trick.
-That's a nice choice. Minkie...
-...that transition.
-Oh. it's beautiful. Minkie.
Back to our beautiful bingo hall.
Yeah. there's...
...another great cutting sequence here.
We had a room full of senior citizens
who. on the face of it...
...we were told would not be able
to hold the day.
But. Bob. your constant...
-Badgering?
-Crowd work?
Patter. it just sold it.
They didn't leave.
They all stood there.
They stayed with us...
...for the whole day. thanks to you.
Well...
...they were all great people.
I've worked with many of them
more than once.
And if you tell people
what's happening...
I think with film-making. the hardest
thing is the repetitive nature.
But if you talk them through it.
they can feel like they're a part of it.
Oh. that lady is so funny.
What's her name?
-Is it...?
-Which one?
Phyllis Applegate.
Phyllis with the wig.
-Yes. yep.
-Right?
Phyllis is so funny.
We have Christopher Hagen here.
as Big Paul...
...who auditioned for us many.
many times through the years.
And he has such a great face.
His excitement was
kind of extraordinary. I loved it.
-Yeah.
-Look at that.
Yeah. that's not the role
I thought he would win. But he did.
No. but it worked for him.
And there's Kelley Lewallen...
...who also was
introduced to us season one.
-Yes.
-She's got a wonderful deadpan humor.
I was... I had...
One of the scenes
I'm most proud of. ever...
...on the directing side.
is Bob's breakdown...
-Oh. right. the monologue.
-Breakdown at bingo.
That was great.
Yeah. which is really
a highlight of my film-making life.
And so. it was so much fun
to see bingo back and to see...
But it's also so horrible.
because Jimmy's taking something...
...that really was positive.
that's good. that he's using...
He was using his abilities
in more or less a positive way.
And now it's all kind of curdling up.
And it's fun to watch. but it's...
There's also a sadness to it...
...to me. anyway.
Yes. very much so.
I love the line. "I sold my soul."
-Yeah.
-Yes.
Because it meant very little to me
when I did it...
...but then.
in the context of this moment...
And we have the woman
who acts as the director...
...at this actual facility
playing a background role.
-Oh. yeah?
-Which was nice.
We had a lady that had
just celebrated her 100th birthday.
-That's right.
-Really?
Yeah.
Minkie. how many freaking setups
is this scene?
Two.
-A lot.
-How long did you take to shoot this?
Bob. you were... You were game...
...because it was a big ask on you.
wasn't it?
I guess so. I don't know. though.
That's the show.
This is what the show is.
I know I was shooting
on the last day of the episode...
...and you guys were doing
a separate set with just the balls...
-...and the machinery.
-We couldn't fit that in.
Forty-eight for "Dewey defeats Truman."
It's... It's a shrewd question you asked.
Rhea. because...
-It looks like 1000 setups.
-This is a very complex sequence.
And. you know.
I think one of the things...
...that makes a sequence complex
is if you're in the head...
...of more than one person.
And the fact that we're in Jimmy's head.
we're in Irene's head.
We have all these little interactions
with Irene's friends.
-Right.
-It's just... It's just a hell of a lot.
Right. If it's only one
or if you're watching it...
-...from outside. it's simpler.
-Yep.
You have to feel all the pressures
of each of these different...
-Also keeping... Exactly...
-Look at that face.
Keeping everyone else alive.
keeping what they're thinking alive...
...but not being in their heads.
But... You know what I mean?
The only way we could make it work
was to have three cameras that day.
-You did have three cameras?
-Yeah.
Oh. I... I believe it.
-It's... And it's...
-Wonderful Bonnie.
It came out great. Yeah. Bonnie's great.
It is a bingo for Irene!
But it just meant that Marshall. DP.
had to compromise slightly at times...
-...because we were having to...
-You'd be in each other's frame?
-Yeah.
Fastest bingo of the night.
I can't even watch this.
It just makes me squirm.
-Heartbreaking.
-I've gotten a lot of people...
...saying that I must be a terrible person
to my grandparents because...
-No. I like my grandparents.
-You are a terrible person. though.
-I am a terrible person. but...
-Genny Hutchison said on Twitter...
...that Irene was based
on her grandmother. right?
-Well. the name was. yeah.
-Oh. the name.
I know she loved her
and she just passed away.
She said that on Twitter.
so I can say that.
This is. I think.
one of my favorite scenes...
...we did this season.
It's just awful.
This must've been
a very nuanced thing to direct. Minkie.
There's a lot of ways
you could play this scene.
Yeah. and I think... I think for Jean.
she was very...
She didn't want to go there.
She didn't want to get emotional.
She struggles to get emotional. but I...
...felt that she needed to at this point.
that we'd pushed her that far.
What? No.
Yes.
They're so cold.
Now we're watching the scene...
-...which proves something.
-Yeah. I know.
-It just...
-It's riveting.
-Bob. you're so good in this.
-Jimmy is such a shit heel here.
-Yes. he is.
-But for some reason...
-...I can't take my eyes off him.
-No.
-And I think it's because of you.
-Well. he... He does feel bad for her.
See. you could see he...
"Am I doing this?"
Yes. slight wince.
"Am I really gonna do this?"
Also. what he says here
is a gentle way and a kind of...
He's using the truth.
-Yes.
-Maybe they need the money.
Oh. my God.
your fake. like. "I don't know."
I don't know.
But this is something
I find so interesting...
...especially about this season.
there are all these moments...
...where Jimmy. and Chuck too. use...
...sincere emotions in an insincere way.
-Yeah. Good point.
-Especially...
This scene and especially
episode seven that you have...
...with the insurance...
The insurance lady.
There's just...
You can't quite see
what's real and what's not.
-Right.
-It's fascinating.
But on this scene. Bob.
we actually did two versions.
You did one
where you did play it very sincere.
And then we did one take
where we played more with seeing.
-Oh. I don't even remember that.
-That you could see the scheme?
Yeah. yeah.
Something else I think...
Coming up here that I like...
...that's happening with the character
as we've gone on with it...
...is that it's like Jimmy steals things
from everywhere.
He steals costuming.
He steals lines from people and then
says them in a different context.
When he tells her to listen to her heart.
that's what Howard told him in the pilot.
-Yes.
-So he takes these little things...
...and then re-twists them
and makes them his own.
-He's like a magpie.
-He is.
This is it.
-Fake thinking.
It's great.
-The layers there are pretty impressive.
-Oh. my God.
And it looked like
you're still holding a cat prize.
-I am.
-That's amazing.
-Oh. the binders. Oh. those binders.
-Oh. the binders.
This was complicated.
just to figure out how...
...all of this laid out in the room.
And there were so many moving parts.
and it had to just...
And realistically... And the timing.
-Yeah.
-And the resets. It was just...
Because we do have such lovely fans
that will freeze-frame a scene.
Tina Parker and I were over there
trying to figure out...
...exactly which...
I tell her something's missing.
Which I really think she should
probably be fired for. but it's fine.
Well. she's getting coffee. so...
Not a problem.
Hey. who's ready
to have her life changed?
A little Zafiro Añejo.
Yes. soon available
at a liquor store near you.
That's how strong that shit is.
It changes your life.
-It's true.
-Change the direction of your life.
Drink our tequila.
We can't promise it'll go better.
-Just different.
-But it'll change.
-It'll be different.
-One way or another.
Don't you have a bottle of that. Melissa?
I... Oh. always. yes.
-No. like. the actual... The original?
-Yeah. I do.
It's kept in a vault.
It's a precious item.
Didn't George Clooney just sell
his tequila company?
-Yes.
-He did. For like a billion dollars.
-Don't you think that's on our minds?
-What?
Why is that...? What?
It's delicious.
What?
That's insane.
I love how Kim handles him here.
She's such an adult.
But her ponytail is split.
so nothing good can happen.
That was a very conscious decision by...
Yes. it's always conscious
if it involves my ponytail.
Yeah.
What does the ponytail tell us?
It's unraveling a bit.
-Yeah.
-Get it?
Bob. you and I had
a good time playing this.
Like. on what level is she taking him in
and spurning him?
Because. again...
Because of the deftness of writing...
...both people have a point.
He's like. "Give me five minutes."
She's like. "I'm freaking working.
Why don't you help with that? Why don't
you carry these binders. a-hole?"
It's the biggest moment of his life.
He thinks he solved all their problems.
Kim definitely thinks
there's something weird...
-...about him saying they settled.
-Yes.
And so...
What I like about how you played it
is it's a fight that you just had...
...but it's so compact that it doesn't...
It's not yelling and screaming
at one another. but just...
...around the edges. fraying.
Like the ponytail.
It's probably the worst fight
we've ever seen them have.
Yeah.
This is a very...
Am I on the flatbed here
or am I driving? Because we did both.
-Flatbed.
Very interesting choice...
...and I think effective.
You guys are happy with this.
Did you talk about it a lot?
Look at Cheri Montesanto's make-up.
the subtle. like. fatigue.
-Yeah.
-But. yes. talk about the direction...
...and choices here.
You guys did a good job.
You know. I can't take credit. sadly.
It was a... You know. Peter.
you came up with this idea...
...of never. ever seeing the crash
and just going for the match cut.
This is something that.
well. in the writers' room. we...
We had talked about
how to show a crash.
And we don't like to put everything
into the director's lap.
But we wanted to do it
differently and subjectively.
Also. you could feel something
was gonna happen. which is so weird.
Just a testament to the whole show
and the rhythm of the show and...
...the notion of that silence
made you go. "Something bad..."
Yeah. yeah.
Talk about Cheri's work.
-Yeah.
She researched the hell out of that...
What kind of burns...
...you get from airbags.
-And this shot is just spectacular.
-It's so beautiful.
And this car is really trashed.
you guys. for people listening.
-Into a fake boulder. correct?
-Yes.
But on the real side of the road.
being held on by a cable.
And the angle is quite. quite extreme.
Yeah. this was...
This was on the edge of being...
It's done very safely.
but it could've been dangerous...
...if it wasn't done so professionally.
But it was days of prep.
It was days of wrecking. scouting and...
And Joe. our Special Effects.
is in that back seat. crouched down.
Helping the papers get out
of the trunk with the breeze.
There's a fan offside.
That's actually a road Walter White
drove down many a time...
-...way back when.
-A whole two miles from our stages.
-That's right.
-Yes. indeed.
What a... That was a hell of an episode.
-It went fast.
-Such a big episode.
-Oh. yeah.
-What's gonna happen?
-What happens in episode 10?
-Nobody knows.
-Can't be told.
-That was great.
-Great job. Minkie and Gordon.
-Great job.
Thank you. Minkie.
Yes. Excellent.
Well done. all.